Technical Steering Committee Charter,  GOVERNANCE,  etc. (#1057)
PixarAnimationStudios/OpenTimelineIO: tsc/OpenTimelineIO_TSC_Charter.md

## 2. Technical Steering Committee
  * **a.** The Technical Steering Committee (the "TSC") will be responsible for all technical oversight of the open source Project.
  * **b.** The TSC voting members are initially the Project's Committers. At the inception of the project, the Committers of the Project will be as set forth within the "CONTRIBUTING" file within the Project's code repository. The TSC may choose an alternative approach for determining the voting members of the TSC, and any such alternative approach will be documented in the CONTRIBUTING file. Any meetings of the Technical Steering Committee are intended to be open to the public, and can be conducted electronically, via teleconference, or in person.
  * **c.** TSC projects generally will involve Contributors and Committers. The TSC may adopt or modify roles so long as the roles are documented in the CONTRIBUTING file. Unless otherwise documented:

>     * **i.** Contributors include anyone in the technical community that contributes code, documentation, or other technical artifacts to the Project;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **i.** Contributors include anyone in the technical community that contributes code, documentation, or other artifacts to the Project;
```
A piece of paper with a logo drawing on it is a non-technical artifact that could be contributed to the project. It may be scanned, producing a technical artifact but the piece of paper itself would be the originating contribution.

Author: I don't think the word "technical" is trying to distinguish physical vs digital. Though, the project can only accept digital contributions in practice. I think the word "technical" is meant to match the meaning of "Technical Steering Committee" which is that the TSC makes technical decisions for a technology project.

Reviewer: Yes, that makes sense to me.

>     * **ii.** Committers are Contributors who have earned the ability to modify ("commit") source code, documentation or other technical artifacts in a project's repository; and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **ii.** Committers are Contributors who have been granted the ability to modify ("commit") source code, documentation or other technical artifacts in a project's repository; and
```

Author: I agree that "granted" is more clear, in that the TSC must actually grant that role to someone.

Reviewer 2: So it's true that it must be 'granted', but note that the TSC must have non-discriminatory criteria for becoming a committer. 'Earned' is a good word to use to indicate the burden of hitting the requirements is on the contributor and still gives the TSC the ability to vote to approve the new committer. Some projects have more liberal rules, so this wording gives the project more flexibility it's committer policies. Let me know if this helps.

Reviewer: I see! My objection to "earned" is that it is not defined anywhere, and is therefore a subjective, not objective word. I snag on subjective words in contracts.... Effectively "earned" is a granting subject to possibly opaque TSC consideration, as opposed to any kind of measurable, non-discriminatory, accumulation of merit which "earn" implies.

Reviewer 2: Yep - does that address your concern?

Author: Re-reading this, I see that 2.c.iii. unambiguously explains that Committers are added/removed by majority approval of existing Committers. This addresses the "granted" part in my mind.
With that out of the way, the word "earned" in 2.c.ii. just serves to explain the difference between a Contributor and a Committer, not the mechanism for how to become one. Furthermore, 2.c says "Unless otherwise documented" and we have a whole section on GOVERNANCE.md titled "How to Become a Committer" which covers that.

Reviewer 2: OK - seeing if there's anything open on this still. Sorry to bug ;-)

Reviewer: all good, thanks!

Reviewer 2: 👍

  * **f.** The TSC may elect a TSC Chair, who will preside over meetings of the TSC and will serve until their resignation or replacement by the TSC. The TSC Chair, or any other TSC member so designated by the TSC, will serve as the primary communication contact between the Project and the Technical Advisory Council of the Academy Software Foundation of The Linux Foundation.
  * **g.** Responsibilities: The TSC will be responsible for all aspects of oversight relating to the Project, which may include:
    * **i.** coordinating the technical direction of the Project;
    * **ii.** approving project or system proposals (including, but not limited to, incubation, deprecation, and changes to a sub-project's scope);
    * **iii.** organizing sub-projects and removing projects;
    * **iv.** creating sub-committees or working groups to focus on cross-project technical issues and requirements;
    * **v.** appointing representatives to work with other open source or open standards communities;
    * **vi.** establishing community norms, workflows, issuing releases, and security issue reporting policies;

>     * **vii.** approving and implementing policies and processes for contributing (to be published in the CONTRIBUTING file) and coordinating with the Series Manager to resolve matters or concerns that may arise as set forth in Section 7 of this Charter;

Reviewer: "Series Manager" is not defined in this document, I am vague as to who that is, I think it should be stated. Their role however is seemingly explicit in the several mentions in this document.

Reviewer: Ah, I thought I recalled that this had been raised before. I feel the rest of the issues mentioned in #6, related to LF definitions and entities have been resolved in this current charter, with the exception of the Series Manager. In the context of this charter's current text, I don't know what a "Series" is, but I do know that a "Series Manager" helps coordinate resolving things. Since the series manager coordinates, as opposed to approving, blocking, or otherwise gating the activity of the TSC, the lack of clarity around the role does not seem to impede the business of the TSC. @jmertic, @jminor, does that sound right? If I've understood it properly, I'm happy to mark this conversation as "resolved, fine as is".

Reviewer 2: Correct @meshula - the Series Manager is more of a legal role and does not impact day-to-day operations

Reviewer: Thanks!
